hi this is Alex from minute earth jet
planes are basically flying fuel tanks
with seats at takeoff as much as forty
five percent of their total weight is
jet fuel which makes sense when you
consider that to carry each passenger on
a seven hour flight requires burning a
hundred and twenty-five kilograms of jet
fuel this massive amount of fuel
wouldn't be a problem except it's really
expensive and it causes huge amounts of
pollution so we might want to replace
jet fuel with something else but that's
really hard for starters whatever
alternative we came up with would
require an airplane redesign since jet
planes are currently built specifically
to run on jet fuel but even ignoring
that serious challenge most alternatives
to jet fuel aren't energetic enough jet
fuel has a high specific energy meaning
it contains a lot of energy for how
heavy it is yet planes still need a lot
of it because they need to be able to
fly literally around the world fuels
like coal and wood and batteries could
probably get a plane off the ground
after all some of the first flight
attempts used coal as a fuel seriously
but a plane wouldn't be able to carry
enough of them to power a long-haul
flight other fuels like natural gas
propane butane and hydrogen hold enough
energy for their weight but since
they're gases they take up more space
and require big heavy storage containers
that would wipe out any benefit from
flying with a lighter fuel diesel and
gasoline on the other hand are as
energetic as jet fuel but they congeal
or catch fire too easily and in the
extreme conditions of an airplane they
could block pipes or explode and while
nuclear fuels hold millions of times
more energy their radioactivity makes
them a little too risky both in the air
and in case of a crash so there's not
really a great alternative to jet fuel
that's why the best bet may be to create
synthetic jet fuel that holds as much
energy as conventional jet fuel is just
as safe causes less pollution and could
work within the current system over the
last couple decades we've been able to
make a few million liters of synthetic
jet fuel in a few different ways but so
far it's still more expensive than
conventional jet fuel that's because
conventional jet fuel is made from
petroleum which formed for free all
around the world over millions of years
in which we've spent the last couple
hundred years
figuring out how to extract and use at
massive scales to make synthetic jet
fuel work not only do we need to figure
out how to more efficiently mimic the
natural processes that occurred over
millions of years we also need to scale
up the industry so it can produce fuel
as cheaply as conventional jet fuel
plainly speaking that could take a while
but even so synthetic jet fuel is the
jet fuel alternative with the best
chance of taking off this video was made
in partnership with Bill Gates who
through breakthrough energy is working
to expand clean energy investment and
support the innovations that will lead
the world to net zero carbon emissions
to learn more visit Gates notes dot-com
or click the link in the description